Please welcome Rob Neville to the podium.
Thank you everybody.
My name is Rob Neville and
I manage the engineering team
that does manage desktop 410.
The sign outside says this is
managing for a networking environment.
If you're here just to hear
something about managing in
a networking environment,
it's going to be different than that
because today what we're going to
be talking about is developing for
a managed client environment for 10.
Okay, so today what we're going to
be talking about is developing
for Mac OS X Managed Desktop.
Mac OS X is a managed environment,
and we're going to be discussing
in a variety of ways how it
is a managed environment.
Ostensibly what we did when we were here
last year is we introduced you to the
concept of Apple desktop management.
And it's a year later.
We've got a year's worth
of software under our belt.
We've got customers who are
actually utilizing the product
and have been giving us feedback.
We've got developers here
who are developing products
to work in that environment.
So we'll be discussing where we are,
where we are today,
where we've come from,
and what it is you guys need to do
and to learn to provide solutions
and to customize your environment
to work better in this environment.
So we're going to be talking
about a managed environment.
So I'd like to turn the
Wayback Machine back,
take us back in history five years,
back before there was a Mac OS X.
And what we had then was the Mac OS,
Mac OS 9, Mac OS 8.
And that was an unmanaged computer.
You plugged it in.
You booted, you came up to the finder,
you could do whatever you
want whenever you wanted.
You got up and walked
away from your machine,
somebody could sit down behind you,
do whatever they want,
whenever they wanted.
You had no way of controlling
that environment at all.
To do that,
to do any sort of control at all,
you had to get additional software.
Apple provided you additional software,
it was called Macintosh Manager.
Macintosh Manager gave you
the notions of having multiple
users use a particular machine,
putting access control,
which applications could they access,
which printers could they use,
a variety of things.
You needed a server
to be able to do that.
But you started getting the
notion of managing the computer.
Well, Mac OS X comes along--let's
fast forward to the present--Mac
OS X comes along and out of the box,
it's a managed environment.
If I go home today and open up a
brand new computer and boot it up,
turn on MacBuddy,
Install the software,
pick my admin account,
get up and running.
I auto-login, turn on fast login,
so I just come up,
I never see a login screen.
The user thinks that they're not managed,
but they are.
There are some things that I cannot
do as that administration user,
that only a super user can do.
So right out of the box,
there are at least two
users of the system.
and I am not, by default, the super user.
So, just right out of the box,
we've got a managed environment.
We put people into a home directory.
They get a home directory for free,
even on a local machine.
So even without any
Apple desktop management at all,
you are managed.
Taking that one step further,
then I start adding users.
Again, if we're just even in
a local environment.
So at home,
I have user accounts for my wife,
for my children.
I don't have any server involved.
None of them--I have
no managed preferences,
which is what our group primarily does.
I've never run a work group manager.
I still have a managed environment.
I don't have access to the
data in my kids' home directory
unless I go in as a super user.
So we'll be discussing a little
bit of that as we just have.
We're also going to be discussing
some of the customer usage
scenarios that we've seen.
What I just discussed briefly was just
a normal setup where I have a single
machine with just multiple user accounts.
That's a managed environment.
We'll be talking about what Apple's
desktop management solution is,
what it is, what it isn't.
I'll be talking briefly a little
bit about what we've learned.
So it's been a year.
People are starting to--if you
went to Michael Lopp's session
yesterday on the desktop solutions,
he talked about deployment, access,
and assessing the deployment,
and rolling out.
Well, people have been rolling
out--starting to roll out solutions.
And for those of you--how many here
work in an IT department or work in IT?
How many of you are
application developers?
Okay, so we've got--looks
like it's about 70-30.
Seventy applications developers, 30% IT.
So with the IT--you IT folks,
you know that you test out a deployment
before you roll it out to your customers,
or disaster will happen in most cases.
So what happens is,
as you're deploying that,
you find the glitches and the gutches,
and you've been giving us feedback
on some of those implementations,
and we've taken those to heart.
So we'll be discussing some of those.
And where we're going to be taking
Apple desktop management going forward.
I'll be showing you a little
bit about what's new in 10.3,
which will be coming out soon.
And what it is you--70% of the people
in here--what it is you're going to
need to do to work in that environment.
Things you're going to need to do.
Things you're going to
need to pay attention to.
And really what you're going
to need to do going forward.
So let's jump over to
our customer usage model,
because this is the way we
think about--what we think about
when we're developing software,
at least in my organization.
We try and identify who
our critical customers are.
Some of you are in this room.
If you're not on this screen, you know,
come talk to me after the session,
and we'll start paying attention
to what your usage scenario is.
But what we do is we look at
various customer scenarios,
and we try and gear our software and
the solution that we're developing to
meet one of these customer scenarios.
So the first one we have
is a one-to-one deployment.
And what do I mean by that?
That's a scenario whereby
I hand you a PowerBook.
I own the PowerBook.
You don't own the PowerBook.
I have given you an
account on that PowerBook.
Let's say it's employee.
You do not have super user
access to that machine.
You don't even have admin
I put everything on that machine
that you could possibly want
to use that I can think of.
But can you add new software to it?
Not if it requires
admin access to do that.
You would have to give it back to
me to install new software on it.
But it's my physical machine.
I give it to you.
You can add bookmarks.
You can do whatever you can do as a user.
You have physical access to the machine,
but you don't have admin access.
And one of our significant
customers of this is the schools,
where schools will hand out CPUs on a
temporary or even a long-term basis.
It's owned by the school system.
[Transcript missing]
There's a full-blown IT deployment
where I've got a server in the back,
I may have Big Iron behind
the server in the back room,
you've got network accounts,
I have site license software
that I have in numbers of seats
that each individual can use.
So I control which printers
you can have access to,
which applications you
can have access to.
How much data storage
you have on my servers,
what servers you have access to,
what your username is,
what your password is,
how often you have to
change your password,
how long your password needs to be,
what sites you can access,
what you can't access.
I control all that you see and hear.
In that particular case,
mostly the people have network accounts.
So that's really useful,
but that in and of itself--and
we've tried to solve some of
this--can create problems.
Usually not for a big IT place,
but I was in a session yesterday
where we were talking about
where a user got up and spoke at
the podium--at the microphone.
And he was saying,
"We still have 10BaseT.
We're still deployed on
top of 10BaseT." Well,
so if I have all my network storage
and it's all happening over 10BaseT,
now with significant amounts of
data flowing around and lots of
people using my 10BaseT network,
even just doing browsing.
Downloading some of that stuff
off of the net is something
we've attempted to try and solve.
The other thing is the scenario
that I alluded to in the beginning,
where you have an
at-home kind of setting.
Though I know that some of you out
there are deploying capabilities
as an IT solution as well,
this is primarily geared towards a
small or very small number usage,
and that's the capabilities.
However, the capabilities scenario,
which allows you to control
media--so Johnny can burn a CD,
Johnny can't burn a CD,
but I can--and what
applications Johnny can use.
I don't want Johnny using the terminal,
those kinds of things.
It's primarily for application access
control and media access control,
and it's in a small environment,
but the mechanism for doing
that is the same mechanism as
what is used in a big system.
We don't have a separate
means for funneling that kind
of data down to the system.
We use the same mechanism for
capabilities as we do for a
full managed environment in IT.
Then we get the mobile user,
and the mobile user is a little
bit different from the one-to-one
deployment I was talking about.
In this case, I give you the computer,
and you have a network account.
You have this computer.
You sit down,
you connect up to the network,
and you log in.
You log in with a username and password,
and then you unplug
that from the network,
and you take it home.
You take it on the road with you.
I have some medium of control,
but maybe not as much.
I may say that you can
access the CD or not.
But it's in a mixed kind of environment.
And there are others, and we want to hear
what those others are.
We really want to get a
feeling for how it is that you
people are using the product.
Because the clearer the
feedback you give us,
the better the product
we can deliver to you.
So what is it that we're
talking about here?
Apple Managed Desktop.
So Apple Managed Desktop is a
mechanism for managing resources.
And what is that?
Well, that's people.
So I manage people by
managing user lists,
by managing passwords
and password policies.
It's managing equipment settings,
and there's some new
ones that we're managing.
It's, you know,
does the computer turn off
at 10 o'clock at night?
Do I have screensavers come on?
Not screensavers,
but does the monitor dim automatically?
Do you have access to these
kinds of applications?
Applications are resources.
So how do we do that?
We do that through Workgroup Manager,
primarily.
Capabilities is handled through the
system in a small kind of environment.
But what you have is you have
your personal environment
where you have your accounts.
And if you move from accounts
on a local level for a system,
you move to Workgroup Manager.
Workgroup Manager basically is
a bigger accounts management
thing with lots more options.
Because you have lots
more that you can control.
But what is Workgroup Manager?
Workgroup Manager is
primarily a directory editor.
It edits data that sits in a directory.
And that's going to become much
clearer to you all with Panther.
Because for me,
a key feature of Workgroup
Manager in Panther is the inspector.
Because that gives me the ability
to go in and edit my directory raw.
That's a lot of power,
and there's not a lot of sanity
checking that happens when that goes on.
So, you know,
buyer beware--user beware in
this particular situation.
What we do in my group,
which primarily handles the
preference setting--and as we
look into Workgroup Manager,
you'll see, and we'll be dealing a lot
with the preference setting--is
we take those preferences and
we put them into an XML file.
into an XML format, and we store those in
the directory structure.
We really don't,
and then when a user logs in,
we go out to the server based on what
machine the user is logging in on,
who the user is,
what groups they're part of
or have chosen to be part of
for this particular session.
And we get that XML data
out of the directory.
We unionize it or munge it,
put it down to the local system,
and that sets what their preferences are.
We also do volume mounting as part of
the programmatic process that happens.
We also pass information off
to the system so that if you
have applications that need to
launch or those kinds of things,
we set those preferences so
that other system services
can take advantage of those.
But we really don't do a lot
of actions other than that.
We are not access control lists.
Though we do allow for permissions
and preferences and things like that,
we're not setting up
access control lists.
So we have a managed environment.
The top of the managed
environment chain for us is users.
The first thing you do is you
set up users and you set them up
usually with home directories.
Not always.
Because I can set up a series of users
and they don't have home directories
and maybe they're all FTP users.
In that case, they're managed.
They're managed FTP users.
They don't have--they're not going to
be accessing this particular device,
and so they don't have home directories.
In those home directories,
we store preferences.
So again,
a bunch has changed with Panther,
and the things that you as
developers and you as IT folks
really need to pay attention to,
and that is today with Jaguar,
I sit down and I log in as me.
And until I log out,
I'm the only one using the
machine for the most part.
Now, I know people can SSH in,
people can FTP in,
people can do a bunch of stuff.
But as far as accessing freestanding,
native Mac OS X, you know,
GUI applications, I'm the only one that's
doing any of that.
[Transcript missing]
So that I can get up from my desk,
go to lunch, or I can be in a lab and be
sitting there and accessing it,
and then my lab partner can
switch over to their account.
So now you have two people logged
into the machine at the same time.
And application developer me puts
all those things in a global space,
or with an absolute path,
Well, User 2 can't access the data
that User 1 is accessing because
I've got it open and running.
So those are some of the things that
you really need to be thinking about
when you're developing solutions or
when you're testing out your products.
Don't require specific folders.
Now, last year when I was giving
this kind of presentation,
I had a whole scenario where I showed
a demo and I ran FS usage on a
bunch of applications and showed
how some applications were being
bad and they were doing lots of I/O,
and if you have I/O over the network,
it's bad.
I tried to look for some applications
that were doing some bad things.
Early iterations of
some people's software,
if you didn't have a specific
folder with a specific name,
the application would crash.
Now, if you want a specific folder,
some of these applications,
they will create a new application
with that particular folder.
Our customers like to customize.
Customers customize.
And don't require them to
have a specific folder.
Don't, you know,
"My App Folder." So you provide
an application and it has to have
these--don't use specific folder names.
Use relative names where possible.
Allow for one installation per CPU,
but don't require--don't disallow
multiple users from accessing
that particular application.
This is, you know,
the fast user switching scenario.
You can't be sure that only
one person is going to be
trying to run your application.
You're going to be multiple
users in the machine.
Also assume that your application
will be accessed over the network.
So why is that?
Well, that's for a couple of reasons.
I do some beta testing for
some Mac OS X applications,
which I can't talk about
because they're still in beta.
And one of the first bugs I wrote
on these applications was I logged
in using my network user ID,
which is out on the network,
and I tried to run the application,
and it crashed.
It didn't like me not running locally.
It also didn't like me
not running as admin,
which is a totally also
different scenario.
So there are two different things.
One, assume that if I'm doing I/O,
for example,
if I'm writing out to a cache or I'm
storing files in temporary folders,
if they're stored out on the network.
You have to assume that where
that user's home directory is
could be out on the network.
And that if it's out over the network,
what we ran into here this morning
is there's a really big airport
configuration here for all of
you guys to have airport access.
That can get really busy.
And if I'm booting or running
multiple applications,
all of them over airport,
and all of this data's in
various network home directories,
it might not be the fastest
airport implementation.
In a lot of cases,
we have airport solutions
that we've sold to schools,
and they haven't updated to the new,
faster airports.
So they're accessing their network
folders over airport with 30,
40 people connecting to the same
airport base station at the same time,
and the performance goes into the toilet.
So you as developers need to take that
into consideration when you're building.
You're writing your applications.
Don't require the users to run your
applications if you're developers
out there to have admin access.
As we get back to the usage scenario,
most of our users aren't
running as admins.
Most of them are running
as network users,
and some percentage of them know an
admin password for their machine,
but
A large number of customers do not,
and some subset of
customers--one customer,
two customers--might be 40,000 users,
where none of those 40,000
users know their admin password.
So, use our product to test your product.
[Transcript missing]
Workgroup Manager.
What is Workgroup Manager?
Workgroup Manager is a way to
manage system-level preferences.
How many of you have used
Workgroup Manager here on Jaguar?
So about 20-25%. For those
of you who have not,
Workgroup Manager allows
you to set preferences into
three separate categories.
I'll be showing you a Workgroup
Manager demo here in a bit,
and I'll go into a little bit more
because 75% of you haven't used it.
Basically we have the notion
of three different groupings.
We have users,
which I think you're all familiar with.
We have groups,
which you're sort of all familiar with.
The users are part of groups,
and you're familiar with that.
And then we have computer lists.
So basically what happens is
when the machine boots up,
it is bound to--in most cases or
in a lot of cases--it's bound to
some directory in the network.
So it gets network
services available to it.
It's bound to some directory.
And the machine will go to that
directory and find out whether or not
it knows about me on the computer.
Does it know about me?
In its list, yes or no.
If I am, are there any preferences
associated with me,
my specific device?
There may or may not be.
If I'm not in a list of known computers,
does the binding handle guest computers?
So anybody who comes and
plugs in their machine.
And what preferences are
associated with that?
Maybe I require everybody who logs
into my network to have a list log in.
things like that,
we'll show you some of that when we get
into showing your workgroup manager.
Then, it puts up the user list.
You get a user list,
I get to pick what user
I want to log in as.
Once I've logged in as that user,
then I get to pick what group the user
might be a member of multiple groups.
And I can set preferences
at each of those levels,
and we'll show you how we do that.
Workgroup manager also sets non-MCX data.
That's the MCX data,
for system level preferences,
as we'll see.
It also sets up non-MCX data.
This is workgroup manager,
where I go and I add users.
And I add home directories.
I add group volumes that
are accessible to them.
and I set up parameters and
policies for those users.
This user has a home .
They have 5K of storage in it,
because I don't have--I have
thousands and thousands of users
using this particular machine,
and I don't want them to have
a lot of network storage.
5K is really small,
but let's say 5 meg or 100 meg
or something--something small.
So--but I'm already managing
those users by telling them,
"This is how much storage you have
on my network devices." The other
thing to remember with Workgroup
Manager is it's directory-centric.
So I can set this thing
up in a directory,
I can configure users,
and those users could have
home directories on a totally
different set of machines.
Setup in Workgroup Manager:
Where those home directories are
does not need to be on the machine
that is holding the information.
So,
Workgroup Manager is a directory-centric,
it's not a server-centric configuration.
Again, take the Wayback
Machine back five years ago,
and what we were dealing with was
Apple Share and Apple Share IP,
where your user list was
specific to a specific machine.
What we do when we move into
a directory-centric model is,
"I can have the same username and
password and have that be accessible
in multiple different arenas."
So what's new for 10.3?
Well, there are a couple of things.
And the first one that you see up there,
mobile accounts,
is something I'm really happy with.
[Transcript missing]
and we'll get to one
of our usage scenarios,
and that usage scenario
is the mobile environment.
I give you--again,
thank you very much for volunteering--I
give you this PowerBook,
and you have a network ID,
because you're an employee for me.
So you have a network ID,
you have a network account where I give
you so much data storage on my server.
and you can log in.
When you log in,
you log in with your network ID,
your username and password,
and you're sitting at your desktop with
your PowerBook and everything's fine.
You unplug that PowerBook from
the network and you go home,
you go on the road,
you try and log in using your network ID.
And you can't, because there's no network
user on that local device.
So what do you do?
I've given you admin access
to that particular machine
so you can do some stuff.
I'm a nice guy and you've
got control of the machine,
so you can create a local user
with your first name only.
[Transcript missing]
Log out.
Log back in as my local
user with your first name.
Well, I'm out the directory,
but now I don't have read/write
access to my network home directory.
What am I going to do?
Ha-ha!
You're going to use mobile accounts.
Mobile accounts,
what that will allow you to do is,
I as an administrator know
what you're going to be doing.
So I say, for you,
you have the ability to set up a local
account with the same name and password,
and to the system,
it looks like the same user.
So you have the same permissions,
the same group access, the same user ID.
All of that's the same.
I unplug that machine, I take it home,
I take it on the road,
I type in the same username and password.
I get the same password policy.
Everything is the same.
I plug it back into the network.
Now,
what this won't do--this is just account
creation at this particular juncture.
This is a transitionary solution.
What we will do for you,
and we will allow you to do,
is we will mount your network
home directory on your
desktop when it's available.
so that I do my work and I want
to copy this stuff up to my
data storage on the network.
Let's say I only have
100 meg of data storage.
Well, that's fine for my documents.
The documents that have changed,
my spreadsheet maybe or this
and that and the other thing,
and I can copy them up.
I don't have to worry about permissions.
I don't have to worry
about any of that stuff.
We don't do that for you.
We will mount the volume for you,
but we won't do the copying for you.
We will put the documents
folder in your doc,
again, for easy transferring of data.
So you'll have your network account
documents folder will be there.
Your network account home directory
will be in your desktop if you want it,
and you asked me to set that up for you.
We don't set up the synchronization.
Our utilities,
our sync and some other utilities,
and we're providing,
the OS is providing utilities
going forward that will allow
those kinds of things to happen.
But for doing file copying and access,
we don't do that.
So if I go home and I connect up
to 100 different browser sites,
and I add them bookmarks,
and then I want to log in at work
on my desktop with the same user ID,
I'm not going to get those,
unless I copy them,
in which case then I will.
So very excited about that.
I think that'll be a real plus,
make it a lot easier for people to work,
and I know it'll make it a
lot easier for me to work.
Additional login window options.
New in Mac OS 10.3, we have auto logout.
I use this now.
I set mine for 45 minutes.
I get up, I go to lunch,
and when I come back in,
I'm sitting at the login screen.
I'm not sitting at the screen saver.
I may be at the screen saver,
depending on how I configure that,
but I've actually logged out.
So, auto log out.
And the ability to manage that.
Again, we have fast user switching,
and we've given you the
ability to manage that.
We've given you the ability
to turn that off and on.
Because what you may want is you may
want to have fast user switching on
most of the machines in your lab,
except for that special one in the back,
which has a new video card
or something else in it.
We've also--and people talked to me
about this yesterday at another session,
just because they saw who I was
or remembered me from past
years--and that is the ability
to mount additional SharePoints.
So you can, it's not just,
what we currently have today is
if you're a member of a group,
you can mount a group SharePoint.
And that's good because it's
sort of workflow oriented.
But this gives you the ability
to mount additional ones
because people are saying,
well, yeah, I want them to be able
to mount a group one,
but I also want them to be
able to mount a documents one.
I also want to mount a pictures
one and things that are going
to be global to a whole bunch of
people that may be across groups.
So we're giving you
the ability to do that.
Universal access.
These are things to handle
a lot of special ed needs.
And the other thing,
and this comes up with where we've
been hopefully listening to you guys,
and that is for application access,
currently in Jaguar today
we have an allow list.
Allow the users to access
these applications.
Well, that's good.
But not great.
And why isn't that great?
Well, because you all, as developers,
may find and have found that at times
to solve a particular engineering need,
it's easier and faster to just
write a Unix utility that your
main application then calls.
It munges some data in
the background for you,
you fork off some data to it,
or you pipe some data over here.
And those
"Applications, or those little utilities,
aren't visible to the system in the same
way as your full-blown application is."
They actually don't appear
any differently to the OS as
a text file in some cases,
though there are file differences
and extension differences.
But if I go to open the file,
it's just gonna look like a bunch
of text data in a lot of cases.
So the ability for us in a user
interface to show everything that
possibly could be an executable
would be a very big long list.
So we only displayed applications.
So what might happen is I allow
you to run your application,
I'll use Photoshop for an example,
and let's say your dithering
utility is a Unix-based tool.
I didn't allow my user the ability
to launch that dithering tool.
So guess what's gonna happen when
they try to dither the image?
It isn't gonna work because they don't
have access to be able to do that.
So what we've given you
is the ability to say,
well, allow Unix-level tools to execute.
We've also given you the
ability to have a deny list.
And what we found is that what
people really wanna have happen,
what our customers really want,
is they don't want the
students to run iTunes.
So, you can't run iTunes,
you can't run a terminal,
you can't run a console,
you can't run this, you can't run that.
All the things that they can easily pick,
we just tell them you can't run those.
And so we've added a deny list.
And we think that with these
particular different groupings,
we've given you a lot
more flexibility for 10.3.
So now what I'd like to do is
I'd like to show you a demo
workgroup manager here on Demo 1.
So what we have here is something which
is probably familiar to all of you.
We've got a little bit of--a
few things that are different.
A little bit different look and feel.
But ostensibly,
this is where we--this is where
everybody usually starts out.
And I'm in here and I want
to create a new user.
And I'll create my new user, WWDC.
Give them a password.
I can give them what
level I want them to have.
I can have them administrate the server.
I can have them administrate a domain.
There is no domain set up
on this particular machine,
so that's not active.
The ability to log in or not.
So I'm already starting to
layer some management here.
Depending on whether or not they
can administer the directory domain,
I can give them granularity for that.
Again, I can't get to that particular
one because we're not
administering a domain here.
Then we have--let me save that
so we have now a new user.
We have a variety of different
options that we can set for that user.
We can set their password policy.
We can set what their shell is.
We can assign them to groups.
We'll get to that a little bit.
We can also--again,
since this is freestanding,
there's another button which pops
up when it's not freestanding,
and that is a network button.
So I can select--say they
have a network home directory,
but I'll go here under Advanced.
And basically what
I can point to here is--
I point them to my server.
This can be a server that's served
up over some other mechanism.
It doesn't have to be served over AFP.
I give them a path and their home.
I can set what their--I could give them
five kilobytes worth of data storage.
That probably wouldn't be real useful.
I can set their storage in
this particular environment.
So let's revert to that.
I could say that they
don't have any home.
Again,
that's a management choice right there.
And all I'm doing is I'm
setting up a user account.
So what I'm trying to get the
notion to you is you don't have
to have managed system preference
data to be a managed user.
I can set up mail preferences,
print preferences,
preferences if they want
to have Windows access,
those types of things.
Then I get into--I can have groups.
Create a new group--WWDC group.
And for those of you who use
Workgroup Manager every day,
[Transcript missing]
I can set that up here.
I can designate a full
path in the advanced mode.
I can add users to this.
Add users to them.
That's real easy.
So adding and deleting users
in this particular environment
[Transcript missing]
and i can do a bunch of things i can
i can set the access for these now so
this gets into an interesting kind of
scenario whereby i can have a user that
can authenticate as who they are they
really are who they are they've typed in
their username and password but i don't
allow them to use that that computer in
the back of the lab that i've saved for
my special ed guys they're not allowed
to use that computer or this servers
i got a bank of servers Only admin
users can log on to these servers.
I don't want any Joe Blow to be able
to log in locally to these servers,
so I can set those kinds
of things up here too.
Then you have a notion of a cache,
and this gets more into...
into our managed client
MCX data environment.
And that is for the sake of speed and to
cut down on the network traffic and to
optimize for that as much as possible,
we keep a local cache of
the data that you set here.
So when a particular user logs in,
we copy some of that data down,
the MCX data,
and some of that other data.
When you're creating mobile accounts,
we actually create a copy
of the directory structure.
So that they've got
the same set of groups,
the same user list, that kind of thing.
And this is cache aging here.
So what we've got here is,
I'm going to switch to guest computers,
and I'm going to switch over here to...
[Transcript missing]
to... Oh, I have it not authenticated.
I can say which applications.
So what we have here is this
is the option that we have
which allows Unix tools to run.
I can toggle that off and on.
Basically, that allows any sort of
Unix tools to execute.
Users can access applications
on local volumes.
A lot of times what you want to
be able to do is you want to say,
well, I don't want them running the
network versions of these.
I want them to run them locally
and allow applications to run
non-approved applications.
And this is an ease of use or an
ease of facilitating the user's
ability to use the machine,
but it gives people the
ability to fairly easily,
depending on what
applications you give them,
launch any number of
non-approved applications.
Then you can launch all
applications except these.
So I can come in and I can say,
remove Activity Monitor,
remove Address Book--I want to be
able to do that--remove ARDAgent,
because I want to be able
to access the machine,
remove Classic, remove Color Sync,
don't remove Console.
So I can go through and
I can remove applications,
move direct--nah,
I don't want them to access
directory access--the meter.
And you can set--basically
you can set what applications
that they cannot access.
So, that's revert.
In the doc, we've added a couple
of things to the doc.
In the doc, we've added the ability to
mount a documents folder.
Shared folder, My Applications folder,
group volumes for groups--since
this is computers,
there are no group
volumes--and the network home.
This gets to the mobile account
scenario that I was talking about.
I want to be able to mount your network
home as a SharePoint on the desktop.
You can also add documents and folders,
and these can be documents and/or volumes
that are individual separate volumes.
And you can configure what
the doc is going to look like.
[Transcript missing]
Let's not save that.
EnergySaver was in and is in Jaguar.
You have a variety of
different energy saver options.
Finder--what's new in Finder?
When new in Finder,
the commands--we've separated out
the restart and shutdown commands,
again, at the request of some users
who wanted to be able to say,
"You can tell the machine to restart,
but you can't--because
something might happen,
you may want to restart the machine,
but you don't want it to shut down,
or vice versa.
You can shut it down,
but you can't restart it."
We split out system preferences.
In the past,
we had application access and
you had system preferences
was just a separate tab there.
People wanted those separately
because they manage the ability
to access system preferences
differently than they do applications.
Basically,
I don't want people here to set the
screen saver or change the sound volume,
those kinds of things.
So we allow them to
manage system preferences.
You can show none.
And then I can go in and
pick printing and fax and
QuickTime only and I can apply that.
So now the only things that are gonna
be shown for the guest computers are
QuickTime and print and fax because
that's the only thing I want them to do.
Mobile accounts.
Mobile accounts is...
Now,
I clicked here on always just because,
you know, for a bug standpoint,
but since I'm not going to,
but for the most part,
this would probably be best
done as a once preference.
And what's the difference here?
Because we have preferences handled
in a couple of different ways.
Once is like your initial setting.
So if I come in and I want
my initial setting on my dock
items to be these things,
these five settings, I want, you know,
here's an intro to the school year,
or an intro to my business.
I want that right in the dock,
and I want a whole bunch of other things.
So I want, when the user comes in at the
beginning of some particular session,
or if I've just rolled
out a new IT solution,
for example, well,
I want the help file for this
new process to be handled,
or it's time for them to
pick a new health plan.
So I'm going to put down
in a set once setting,
I'm going to put down here's a
URL to the health plan in my dock.
And that's once.
And then they can change that,
and it won't ever show up again.
But if I want something to go back and
every time they log in to be reset,
So, creating a mobile account,
I don't want to create this local
mobile account every time I log in.
So, I probably want to do that for
the first time the user logs in,
they get this preference,
and I want to give them the option
to create an account locally that
maps to their network account.
So, this is an example of one that
probably would be most useful.
However,
you might want to do that always,
because the user might be deleting
their mobile account on a regular basis.
It may actually just be being
used as temporary storage.
So I may create a mobile
account on a PowerBook,
turn the computer in.
At the end of the day,
I delete all the users on that computer.
Next time that user logs in,
I want it to create another
account local to the machine.
So there is uses for always.
Universal Access is new.
Basically, this tries to mirror the
universal access in the system.
And then the other one we have here,
internet.
Let's talk about internet for a second.
So, and this brings up an interesting
point that I wanted to get to.
So we do not manage everything in
the system from a system preference
standpoint from managed desktop.
We don't manage everything.
And we don't manage
everything in the same place.
Why do we do that?
Well, if you look at Panther,
there is no internet
system preference anymore.
In the Internet System Preference,
there was what is now in
the .Mac System Preference.
Well, in Jaguar,
in the System Preferences,
we had email and we had web.
So, what we did
So with email and web,
those things aren't
managed in Panther anymore.
They're managed in an application level.
But for our Jaguar clients,
they're still managed.
So that's why these are here.
And we also believe that they're
good to be managed anyway.
But we don't manage the iDisk ones.
So because we're running
out of time here,
I want to show you something
which I think is really cool,
and that is the inspector.
So we have the inspector.
And ostensibly,
I'll come over here to Users,
I'll pick WWDC,
and I'll click on the inspector.
And I've got WWDC.
Here I have everything that's associated
with the standard password server.
Notice I have no data
for MCX data at all.
Click on Computer Lists
and click on Inspector.
Here you'll see--whoops,
hold on a second, it counts.
I don't see any MCX data.
I thought I saved that.
Didn't do it under Users.
Let me go in here and create some.
Users can use all
applications except these.
You'll have to excuse me.
The demo that I had set up here on
this particular hard drive would
not boot on this particular machine,
so we're running without a server setting
behind me with all of this configured.
and there we have our MCX data.
Why am I showing you this?
Well,
I'm showing you this for one reason.
Can we switch back to the slides?
Because I'm going to--.
[Transcript missing]
We've got both from user
accounts to file access to
application settings--excuse me,
to system-level settings.
We're going to be showing
you application-level
settings here in a minute.
It's been shipping since Jaguar.
Workgroup Manager has been
part of the Jaguar 10 server.
It can be running on a Jaguar machine.
People are just beginning--the IT folks
are just beginning to deploy this.
They've been evaluating it,
and they're now rolling out solutions.
We're getting the feedback from you all.
We're getting the feedback that we
did with the deny list that we're
adding to Panther and those kinds of
things--the gutches that you've run into.
Preference Storage:
We want you to do a couple of
things for preference storage,
and that is, wherever possible,
we want you to cache files locally,
where possible.
And this is a little
bit schizophrenic here,
because I also want you to associate
these things with user records,
because more than one user
can be accessing the machine,
and I don't want you to have
global data floating around.
But I want you to try and prevent,
wherever possible,
prevent network bottlenecks.
And basically,
what that does is--I mentioned
you try and optimize your
I/O as much as possible,
so that you're not doing a
lot of small reads and writes,
because a ton of small reads and writes
spread across a whole bunch of folks,
all funneled through, you know,
one switch,
or all funneled into one Ethernet
port out the back of one server,
can really slow our users down.
Multiple user environments are a factor
that you have to pay attention to.
So as I mentioned before,
by paying attention to one of the things
that we did was we added your deny
lists for users to restrict user access.
And hopefully that will prevent the
errors from happening and potentially the
hangs from happening when not all of the
utilities that you use to provide your
solutions are available for the users.
Users are accessing their
home directories over airport.
Is this the optimum solution,
and was this the design implementation
that we thought about when we were
doing home directory implementations?
This is what the users are doing?
Yes.
So you need to take that in mind when
you're developing your solutions or
you're providing your applications,
is that they're doing I/O to
their network home directory.
It may not be disk I/O speeds.
And users want their application
preferences to be manageable as well.
So what I'm going to be showing you here
What we have here is a list
of the--we're going to switch
back to this demo machine.
MCX data that's stored.
And as you notice here,
this is the inspector editor.
Here you have the XML.
And we've got application access.
That's the key.
Things are forced.
We have where we set it.
Application access preferences.
So what I'm going to be doing here is,
let me cancel out of this.
Go back here to this application access.
Click on him.
Click on preferences.
And I'm going to set an
internet preference web always.
I want my home page to be w.ample.com.
And default web browser to be Safari.
[Transcript missing]
That's good.
Now I've set my default web page here.
Safari actually is one of
the applications which uses
this internet settings.
And so now people will
go to www.apple.com.
Well, that's all well and good,
but I want more.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm
going to go under my applications,
and I'm going to open up Safari.
This should be interesting
to the IFT folks.
It may not be interesting at all to
you application developers out here,
with the possible exception of,
if you do this with your preferences,
your customers are going to be
able to do this with our product.
So we're going to look
here at preferences.
Oh, look!
I have a home page here too.
Well, let me do http://
[Transcript missing]
and that looks good.
Bookmarks, that looks good too.
I want them to enable tab browsing.
New tabs, I'll set that.
Autofill, security,
I want to block pop-up windows.
Yeah, I'm sure I want to save that.
So I've just set up the preferences
for this application by myself.
So now I'm going to quit this application
and I'm going to go under my home.
And I'm going to open this up with
I didn't want to open it
with the plist editor.
Let me quit plist editor.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to copy this,
paste it into a new file,
save that file as--
[Transcript missing]
Now we're going to edit
these preferences here.
So what I've got here is
I've got application keys.
and his team have a lot
of application keys.
And here we have apple.internet.com.
So I am going to
[Transcript missing]
and I are going to paste that in there.
And now I've just pasted in
If I was able to connect
up to the other server,
basically what I've done is I have
now added Safari preferences
to this particular user's
So,
when they log in and they launch Safari,
they're going to get
those same preferences.
I could do that to a group of users.
I could do that to a computer list.
Any preferences I can set
in an application that are
stored in CFPreferences,
using the inspector
with Workgroup Manager,
you can copy and paste those
preferences into their MCX data.
When that user or group logs in,
that data will get composited
and put in their plist file for
Safari in their home directory,
and they will get those preferences, too.
So, we're giving you a lot of
very powerful tools with
Workgroup Manager going forward.
And we don't do any sanity checking here.
If I had pasted this
in in the wrong place,
offset that dictionary by one,
those preferences might
not have launched.
So, it would have behooved me to make
a copy of those preferences first,
save those out,
so I would have been able to restore,
should it not work.
But this allows you to go into any
application that stores the bulk of
its preferences in the same folder.
And you can do that with
any of your applications.
In CFPreferences,
and to be able to edit those
preferences with a text editor or
with any editor of your choice.
Back to the slides.
So what are development guidelines?
These are the things we
want you to think about.
Your product will be used
in a managed environment.
So test with our product.
You should have been given a
CD with the server software on it.
So install the server software.
Run this software locally.
You can run this stuff locally.
You can sit it on a machine
and run all these preferences
locally for local users.
Or you set up a server so you're
actually doing traffic over the network.
And if you run into problems,
you can debug them in
a network environment.
and run capabilities.
Run capabilities.
The capabilities defaults
might be different.
Assume that your applications will
be controlled in some fashion.
If you have helper applications,
please call those out in
your documentation if they're
really full-blown applications.
So let's say I have a chart application
that puts up a pretty graph based
on the data in my application,
and that's a real
application that I write.
It's a bundled Cocoa app, for example.
Put that in the documentation so
if a user is doing an allow list,
they can pick all the
applications that are usable.
Minimize wherever possible
the use of the unbundled.
If you have some utility or scripts that
you execute as part of your solution,
those won't be runnable.
We will say that the
administrator is the king.
If the administrator sets
something up in a particular way,
we will try and enforce that.
If it says don't give access to
this particular application or these
particular sets of applications,
we won't.
And assume that your product
will be used on the network.
So try and optimize your
I/O wherever possible.
Don't assume that the configuration
that you test with in your
office will be the configuration
that the user has in theirs.
So try not to hard-code file path names.
Use CFPreferences.
Again, you just noticed how easy it was
for me to cut and paste those system
preferences out from Safari to
MCX and put it into the MCX data.
It's the same data.
"Rolling your own preference management
might not work well in the future.
There are no guarantees.
But if you see a
preference going forward,
we'll still be able to manage that."
So just to close up and to wrap this up,
Mac OS X is a managed environment.
You guys are IT guys,
you already know that.
Application developers,
I want to thank you very much.
When I was sitting putting together
this particular presentation last year,
I showed three
applications that were bad.
And I showed how their behavior was bad.
And there were some Apple applications,
too.
And, you know,
I really thought that there--it
would still be really easy
to find bad applications.
And I went and checked a lot
of your applications out there,
and you guys listened.
Thank you very much.
You're not doing a lot of the
things which preclude you from
running in this environment.
And keep up the good work.
I didn't show any bad applications
out there because I didn't find any.
And what I found was things like Safari,
things like, you know,
other applications that are
storing their preferences and
CF preferences--not all of you are,
but a good portion of you are--and
in dictionary formats that are easily
transferable for our IT users out there.
Not all of them are,
but a good majority of them are.
So thank you very much.
And talk to me about what your
customers are seeing and what
your customers are needing.
So who to contact?
Myself, Michael Lopp,
who gave the overview of
this particular stuff.
Skip Levens,
your technologies evangelist.
and the session we had--they
had the session yesterday,
so I don't know that we
have any follow-on sessions.